
삼성전자가 언어 장벽 없이 자유로운 소통이 가능하도록 돕는 ‘갤럭시 AI’의 언어 모델 개발 과정을 25일 공개했다. 삼성전자는 언어를 넘어 문화를 이해하고 지식을 갖춘 고도화된 갤럭시 AI를 위해 전 세계 총 20여개의 연구·개발(R&D) 센터에서 언어 모델 연구·개발에 매진하고 있다. 갤럭시 AI의 온디바이스 실시간 통·번역 기능은 현재 16개 언어를 지원 중이며, 연내 스웨덴어, 네덜란드어, 루마니아어, 튀르키예어의 4개 언어를 더 추가해 총 20개 언어를 지원할 계획이다. 현재 지원 언어는 한국어, 중국어(간체), 영어, 프랑스어, 독일어, 힌디어, 이탈리아어, 일본어, 폴란드어, 포르투갈어, 스페인어, 태국어, 베트남어, 아랍어, 인도네시아어, 러시아어 등이다. 삼성전자의 ‘갤럭시 AI’ 언어 모델은 ▲언어의 특성과 문법에 대한 정량 평가 ▲문화에 대한 지식과 이해를 검증하는 정성 평가 등을 거쳐 공개된다. 아랍어는 20여개국 4억명 이상이 사용하는 세계에서 6번째로 많이 사용되는 언어다. 아랍어를 통번역에 활용하기 위해서는 현대 표준 아랍어인 풋스하(Fusha)와 일상생활에서 사용하는 방언인 암미야(Ammiyya)를 모두 학습해야 한다. 특히 아랍어 방언은 총 30여 종에 달한다. 삼성리서치 요르단 연구소(SRJO)는 아랍어 방언을 이해하면서, 답변은 표준 아랍어로 할 수 있는 언어 모델을 개발했다. 이를 위해 각기 다른 방언의 음성 녹음 데이터를 수집하고, 이를 직접 텍스트로 변환하는 과정을 거쳤다. 데이터베이스 구축을 맡은 요르단 연구소의 아야 하산(Ayah Hasan)은 “여러 방언의 미묘한 차이와 변형을 정확히 이해할 수 있는 원어민들로 갤럭시 AI 팀을 구성하고, 음성 데이터를 일일이 글과 문장으로 바꾸는 수작업을 진행했다”고 설명했다. 삼성전자는 아랍어의 복잡성에 대한 깊은 이해와 신중한 데이터 선별을 진행하고, 고급 모델링 기술을 적용해 아랍어를 갤럭시 AI에 추가할 수 있었다. 베트남어는 전세계 약 1억명이 사용하는 언어로 중국어, 태국어 등 인근 지역 언어와 비슷한 성조 체계를 지니고 있다. 특히 베트남어는 여섯 가지의 성조를 가진다. 예를 들어 베트남어 단어 ‘마(Ma)’는 성조에 따라 엄마(Má), 무덤(Mả), 귀신(Ma) 등 전혀 다른 의미를 지녔다. 삼성리서치 베트남 연구소(SRV)는 성조의 미세한 차이를 인식할 수 있도록, 음성 데이터를 매우 정교하게 다듬고 정제하는 과정을 거쳤다. 무엇보다 성조를 정확히 구분해 내기 위해 한 단어를 0.02초 전후의 짧은 프레임으로 잘라내고 이를 데이터베이스화 했다. 중남미 22개국의 공식 언어는 스페인어다. 하지만 같은 스페인어라도 동일한 대상을 지칭하는 단어는 국가와 지역에 따라 천차만별이다. 예를 들어 멕시코에서는 수영장을 ‘알베르카(alberca)’라고 한다. 하지만 아르헨티나, 파라과이, 우루과이에서는 ‘필레타(pileta)’라고 부른다. 콜롬비아, 볼리비아, 베네수엘라에서는 ‘피시나(piscina)’라고 표현한다. 중남미 지역의 언어 모델 개발을 담당한 삼성리서치 브라질 연구소(SRBR)는 ‘갤럭시 AI’가 중남미 국가의 스페인어 차이를 이해할 수 있도록, 각 국가의 오디오와 텍스트 등 방대한 양의 데이터를 수집해 관리하고 지속적으로 개선했다. 인구 4위의 인도네시아는 2억8000만 인구가 인도네시아어를 사용하고 있다. 인도네시아어는 관사, 복수형, 동사의 시제 변화가 없어서 상대적으로 배우기 쉬운 언어로 평가받는다. 하지만 반대로 문장의 맥락을 충분히 파악하지 못하면 내용을 이해할 수 없어 통·번역이 쉬지 않은 언어이다. 이러한 언어적 특성을 반영해 삼성리서치 인도네시아 연구소(SRIN)는 인간의 뇌가 학습하는 과정과 유사한 ‘인공신경망번역(Neural Machine Translation, NMT)’ 방식을 적용했다. 단어가 아닌 ‘문장 단위’로 언어를 학습시켜, 갤럭시 AI가 의사소통의 맥락과 규칙을 이해할 수 있도록 했다.


Input Words: 234, Input Tokens: 309, Summary Words: 227, Summary Tokens: 299

Hamas’s surprise October 7 attacks stunned Israel. But not everyone was caught unaware. When he learned the news, Dr. Yuval Bitton says he felt it was coming – and knew immediately who was behind it. “I know the person who planned and conceived and initiated this criminal attack,” Bitton told CNN’s Christiane Amanpour. “I have known him since 1996 – not only him but the entire Hamas leadership in Gaza – and it was clear to me that this is what they were planning.” Bitton spent years working as a dentist in Israel’s Nafha Prison. It was there he met “the person” – Yahya Sinwar, a Hamas militant convicted of murder who would go on to become the group’s leader in Gaza – saying he saved his life by helping diagnose a brain tumor. Bitton says he spent hundreds of hours conversing with Sinwar, providing him with rare insight into the mind of the top Hamas official. But his actions have left him tormented. Bitton blames Sinwar for the murder of his nephew, who was killed after Hamas militants raided his home on October 7. In 2004, Sinwar had come to the prison’s clinic complaining of neck pain and losing his balance. “When he explained to me what was happening to him, I diagnosed it as a stroke, and together with the general practitioner, we decided to take him to the hospital,” Bitton said.


Input Words: 2634, Input Tokens: 3678, Summary Words: 221, Summary Tokens: 298

Upon the outbreak of the Second World War, a laureate of several of France's highest literary awards and a successful pioneering aviator prior to the war, Saint-Exupéry initially flew with a reconnaissance squadron as a reserve military pilot in the Armée de l'Air (French Air Force).[9] After France's defeat in 1940 and its armistice with Germany, he and Consuelo fled Occupied France and sojourned in North America, with Saint-Exupéry first arriving by himself at the very end of December 1940. His intention for the visit was to convince the United States to quickly enter the war against Nazi Germany and the Axis forces, and he soon became one of the expatriate voices of the French Resistance. In the midst of personal upheavals and failing health, he produced almost half of the writings for which he would be remembered, including a tender tale of loneliness, friendship, love and loss, in the form of a young prince visiting Earth.[45] An earlier memoir by the author recounted his aviation experiences in the Sahara, and he is thought to have drawn on the same experiences as plot elements in The Little Prince. He wrote and illustrated the manuscript during the summer and fall of 1942. Although greeted warmly by French-speaking Americans and by fellow expatriates who had preceded him in New York, his 27-month stay would be marred by health problems and racked with periods of severe stress and marital strife. These included partisan attacks on the author's neutral stance towards supporters of both ardent French Gaullist and Vichy France.[46] Saint-Exupéry's American translator (the author spoke poor English) wrote: "He was restless and unhappy in exile, seeing no way to fight again for his country and refusing to take part in the political quarrels that set Frenchman against Frenchman."[22] However, the period was to be both a "dark but productive time" during which he created three important works.[47] Between January 1941 and April 1943, the Saint-Exupérys lived in two penthouse apartments on Central Park South,[48] then the Bevin House mansion in Asharoken, New York, and still later at a rented house on Beekman Place in New York City.[49][50] The couple also stayed in Quebec for five weeks during the late spring of 1942, where they met a precocious eight-year-old boy with blond curly hair, Thomas, the son of philosopher Charles De Koninck, with whom the Saint-Exupérys resided.[51][52][53][54] During an earlier visit to Long Island in August 1939, Saint-Exupéry had also met Land Morrow Lindbergh, the young, golden-haired son of the pioneering American aviator Charles Lindbergh and his wife, Anne Morrow Lindbergh.[40][41] After returning to the US from his Quebec speaking tour, Saint-Exupéry was pressed to work on a children's book by Elizabeth Reynal, one of the wives of his US publisher, Reynal & Hitchcock. The French wife of Eugene Reynal had closely observed Saint-Exupéry for several months, and noting his ill health and high stress levels, she suggested to him that working on a children's story would help.[55][Note 5] The author wrote and illustrated The Little Prince at various locations in New York City but principally in the Long Island north-shore community of Asharoken in mid-to-late 1942, with the manuscript being completed in October.[50][51][51] The Bevin House on Long Island, one of the locations in which The Little Prince was written during the summer and fall of 1942.[50] Although the book was started in his Central Park South penthouse, Saint-Exupéry soon found New York City's noise and sweltering summer heat too uncomfortable to work in and so Consuelo was dispatched to find improved accommodations. After spending some time at an unsuitable clapboard country house in Westport, Connecticut,[56] they found Bevin House, a 22-room mansion in Asharoken that overlooked Long Island Sound. The author-aviator initially complained, "I wanted a hut, and it's the Palace of Versailles."[45] As the weeks wore on, the author became invested in his project and the home would become "a haven for writing, the best place I have ever had anywhere in my life."[57] He devoted himself to the book on mostly midnight shifts,[22] usually starting at about 11 pm, fueled by helpings of scrambled eggs on English muffins, gin and tonics, Coca-Colas, cigarettes and numerous visits by friends and expatriates who dropped in to see their famous countryman. One of the visitors was his wife's Swiss writer paramour Denis de Rougemont, who also modeled for a painting of the Little Prince lying on his stomach, feet and arms extended up in the air.[45][50] De Rougemont would later help Consuelo write her autobiography, The Tale of the Rose, as well as write his own biography of Saint-Exupéry. While the author's personal life was frequently chaotic, his creative process while writing was disciplined. Christine Nelson, curator of literary and historical manuscripts at the Morgan Library and Museum which had obtained Saint-Exupéry's original manuscript in 1968, stated: "On the one hand, he had a clear vision for the shape, tone, and message of the story. On the other hand, he was ruthless about chopping out entire passages that just weren't quite right", eventually distilling the 30,000 word manuscript, accompanied by small illustrations and sketches, to approximately half its original length.[58] The story, the curator added, was created when he was "an ex-patriate and distraught about what was going on in his country and in the world."[14] The large white Second French Empire-style mansion, hidden behind tall trees, afforded the writer a multitude of work environments, but he usually wrote at a large dining table.[22] It also allowed him to alternately work on his writings and then on his sketches and watercolours for hours at a time, moving his armchair and paint easel from the library towards the parlor one room at a time in search of sunlight. His meditative view of sunsets at the Bevin House were incorporated in the book, where the prince visits a small planet with 43 daily sunsets, a planet where all that is needed to watch a sunset "is move your chair a few steps."[45][50][Note 6] Manuscript The original 140-page autograph manuscript of The Little Prince, along with various drafts and trial drawings, were acquired from the author's close friend Silvia Hamilton in 1968 by curator Herbert Cahoon of the Pierpont Morgan Library (now The Morgan Library & Museum) in Manhattan, New York City.[11][59][60] It is the only known surviving handwritten draft of the complete work.[61] The manuscript's pages include large amounts of the author's prose that was struck-through and therefore not published as part of the first edition. In addition to the manuscript, several watercolour illustrations by the author are also held by the museum. They were not part of the first edition. The institution has marked both the 50th and 70th anniversaries of the novella's publication, along with the centenary celebration of the author's birth, with major exhibitions of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry's literary works.[33][62] Physically, the manuscript's onion skin media has become brittle and subject to damage. Saint-Exupéry's handwriting is described as being doctor-like, verging on indecipherable.[63] The story's keynote aphorism, On ne voit bien qu'avec le cœur. L'essentiel est invisible pour les yeux ("One sees clearly only with the heart. What is essential is invisible to the eye") was reworded and rewritten some 15 times before achieving its final phrasing. Saint-Exupéry also used a Dictaphone recorder to produce oral drafts for his typist.[22][59] His initial 30,000-word working manuscript was distilled to less than half its original size through laborious editing sessions. Multiple versions of its many pages were created and its prose then polished over several drafts, with the author occasionally telephoning friends at 2:00 a.m. to solicit opinions on his newly written passages.[22] Many pages and illustrations were cut from the finished work as he sought to maintain a sense of ambiguity to the story's theme and messages. Included among the deletions in its 17th chapter were references to locales in New York, such as the Rockefeller Center and Long Island. Other deleted pages described the prince's vegetarian diet and the garden on his home asteroid that included beans, radishes, potatoes and tomatoes, but which lacked fruit trees that might have overwhelmed the prince's planetoid. Deleted chapters discussed visits to other asteroids occupied by a retailer brimming with marketing phrases, and an inventor whose creation could produce any object desired at a touch of its controls. Likely the result of the ongoing war in Europe weighing on Saint-Exupéry's shoulders, the author produced a sombre three-page epilogue lamenting "On one star someone has lost a friend, on another someone is ill, on another someone is at war...", with the story's pilot-narrator noting of The Prince: "he sees all that. . . . For him, the night is hopeless. And for me, his friend, the night is also hopeless." The draft epilogue was also omitted from the novella's printing.[59] Further information: Morgan exhibitions In April 2012 a Parisian auction house announced the discovery of two previously unknown draft manuscript pages that included new text.[10][64] In the newly discovered material the Prince meets his first Earthling after his arrival. The person he meets is an "ambassador of the human spirit".[10][64] The ambassador is too busy to talk, saying he is searching for a missing six letter word: "I am looking for a six-letter word that starts with G that means 'gargling' ", he says. Saint-Exupéry's text does not say what the word is, but experts believe it could be "guerre" (or "war"). The novella thus takes a more politicized tack with an anti-war sentiment, as 'to gargle' in French is an informal reference to 'honour', which the author may have viewed as a key factor in military confrontations between nations.[64][65] Dedication Saint-Exupéry met Léon Werth (1878–1955), a writer and art critic, in 1931. Werth soon became Saint-Exupery's closest friend outside of his Aeropostale associates. Werth was an anarchist, a leftist Bolshevik supporter of Jewish descent, twenty-two years older than Saint-Exupéry. Saint-Exupéry dedicated two books to him, Lettre à un otage [fr] (Letter to a Hostage) and Le Petit Prince (The Little Prince), and referred to Werth in three more of his works. At the beginning of the Second World War while writing The Little Prince, Saint-Exupéry lived in his downtown New York City apartment, thinking of his native France and his friends. Werth spent the war unobtrusively in Saint-Amour, his village in the Jura, a mountainous region near Switzerland where he was "alone, cold and hungry", a place that had few polite words for French refugees. Werth appears in the preamble to the novella, where Saint-Exupéry dedicates the book to him:[66] To Leon Werth I ask children to forgive me for dedicating this book to a grown-up. I have a serious excuse: this grown-up is the best friend I have in the world. I have another excuse: this grown-up can understand everything, even books for children. I have a third excuse: he lives in France where he is hungry and cold. He needs to be comforted. If all these excuses are not enough then I want to dedicate this book to the child whom this grown-up once was. All grown-ups were children first. (But few of them remember it.) So I correct my dedication: To Leon Werth, When he was a little boy Saint-Exupéry's aircraft disappeared over the Mediterranean in July 1944. The following month, Werth learned of his friend's disappearance from a radio broadcast. Without having yet heard of The Little Prince, in November, Werth discovered that Saint-Exupéry had published a fable the previous year in the U.S., which he had illustrated himself, and that it was dedicated to him.[67] At the end of the Second World War, which Antoine de Saint-Exupéry did not live to see, Werth said: "Peace, without Tonio (Saint-Exupéry) isn't entirely peace." Werth did not see the text for which he was so responsible until five months after his friend's death, when Saint-Exupéry's French publisher, Gallimard, sent him a special edition. Werth died in Paris in 1955. Illustrations All of the novella's simple but elegant watercolour illustrations, which were integral to the story, were painted by Saint-Exupéry. He had studied architecture as a young adult but nevertheless could not be considered an artist – which he self-mockingly alluded to in the novella's introduction. Several of his illustrations were painted on the wrong side of the delicate onion skin paper that he used, his medium of choice.[50] As with some of his draft manuscripts, he occasionally gave away preliminary sketches to close friends and colleagues; others were even recovered as crumpled balls from the floors in the cockpits he flew.[Note 7] Two or three original Little Prince drawings were reported in the collections of New York artist, sculptor and experimental filmmaker Joseph Cornell.[68] One rare original Little Prince watercolour would be mysteriously sold at a second-hand book fair in Japan in 1994, and subsequently authenticated in 2007.[69][70] An unrepentant lifelong doodler and sketcher, Saint-Exupéry had for many years sketched little people on his napkins, tablecloths, letters to paramours and friends, lined notebooks and other scraps of paper.[43][45] Early figures took on a multitude of appearances, engaged in a variety of tasks. Some appeared as doll-like figures, baby puffins, angels with wings, and even a figure similar to that in Robert Crumb's Keep On Truckin' of 1968. In a 1940 letter to a friend, he sketched a character with his own thinning hair, sporting a bow tie, viewed as a boyish alter-ego, and he later gave a similar doodle to Elizabeth Reynal at his New York publisher's office.[43] Most often the diminutive figure was expressed as "...a slip of a boy with a turned up nose, lots of hair, long baggy pants that were too short for him and with a long scarf that whipped in the wind. Usually the boy had a puzzled expression... [T]his boy Saint-Exupéry came to think of as "the little prince", and he was usually found standing on top of a tiny planet. Most of the time he was alone, sometimes walking up a path. Sometimes there was a single flower on the planet."[56] His characters were frequently seen chasing butterflies; when asked why they did so, Saint-Exupéry, who thought of the figures as his alter-egos, replied that they were actually pursuing a "realistic ideal".[45] Saint-Exupéry eventually settled on the image of the young, precocious child with curly blond hair, an image which would become the subject of speculations as to its source. One "most striking" illustration depicted the pilot-narrator asleep beside his stranded plane prior to the prince's arrival. Although images of the narrator were created for the story, none survived Saint-Exupéry's editing process.[14] To mark both the 50th and 70th anniversaries of The Little Prince's publication, the Morgan Library and Museum mounted major exhibitions of Saint-Exupéry's draft manuscript, preparatory drawings, and similar materials that it had obtained earlier from a variety of sources. One major source was an intimate friend of his in New York City, Silvia Hamilton (later, Reinhardt), to whom the author gave his working manuscript just prior to returning to Algiers to resume his work as a Free French Air Force pilot.[33][62][71] Hamilton's black poodle, Mocha, is believed to have been the model for the Little Prince's sheep, with a Raggedy Ann type doll helping as a stand-in for the prince.[61] Additionally, a pet boxer, Hannibal, that Hamilton gave to him as a gift may have been the model for the story's desert fox and its tiger.[47] A museum representative stated that the novella's final drawings were lost.[33] Seven unpublished drawings for the book were also displayed at the museum's exhibit, including fearsome looking baobab trees ready to destroy the prince's home asteroid, as well as a picture of the story's narrator, the forlorn pilot, sleeping next to his aircraft. 